I think if you cook for yourself quite
often you need to invest in one of these
herbal
gadgets electric hand withstanding it's
a wonderful gadget now the only thing
that can go wrong with a soup lay
omelette is that you over or under beat
the egg whites and what you want is for
them to come up to soft peaks that just
kind of drip over like that after you've
cooked them so that's the egg whites
there and now the egg yolks but first of
all I'm just going to pop a little bit
of butter into the pan to heat that up
whilst I'm dealing with the yolks and
all I got to do with those is used the
same whisk and just give them them a
quick whisk
and then I'm going to fold them in to
the egg whites using a metal spoon you
just make cutting movements flip the
spoon over like that and just amalgamate
everything thoroughly together now you
might be tempted to want to have a good
old beat here but you mustn't because
the principle of making a souffle is to
get air and you've beaten all the lovely
air into the egg whites and now it's
very important that you don't lose it so
you just fold carefully so that you
retain all the air I think it's always
helpful if you know why when people give
you orders
in recipes and cooking that's it and now
I can hear my butter sizzling away there
the next thing is some cheese and I've
got two ounces of grated cheddar strong
cheddar but you can use any cheese you
like and just for extra flavor I'm going
to add a tablespoon of fresh snipped
chives to give that nice mild oniony
flavor that chives have fold those in
these are available all through the
summer but in the winter you can
actually buy cheddar cheese with chives
already in it so that's a nice cheese to
use for a souffle omelet now and
everything's thoroughly amalgamated you
then swirl the butter around the pan to
give it a good coating just beginning to
tinge brown the butter roll and now in
goes the soufflé mixture what I got to
warn you about now is to leave it alone
you just put it in the pan you can shake
it just to spread it out but leave it in
the pan
for one minute just to set it might be
tempting to want to kind of poke it and
dive in and do all sorts of things but
just have patience and what you can do
to fill in the time is what I'm going to
do now and that is great for more cheese
this time fresh Parmesan cheese and if
you want to transform your cooking
overnight switch from using the ready
grated Parmesan cheese which has very
little flavor to the fresh stuff which
you can buy in supermarkets and
specialized food shops that
transform the flavor of everything if
you're already using the packet stuff
now after a minute if you want to you
can just have a look and see what's
happening yes it's getting nice and
golden underneath and then you just
transfer it to your hot grill which will
do under the grill it goes and then
patience again you have to wait another
minute I'm not asking you to wait very
long it's very quick recipe another
minute now for that to just rise up and
become a little bit Brown and while
we're waiting for that I just want to we
talked about chives I just want to
mention this because if you buy a little
pot of chives at the beginning of the
summer in the springtime and you keep
them on your windowsill well-watered you
can just snip off a few anytime you're
going to cook a recipe just get a
handful like this snip them off and they
give delicious fresh flavor to things
and if you keep it well watered and keep
on cutting it the more you cut it back
in fact the more it seems to grow one of
those we'll see you well I think through
the whole summer